BLACK HAT EUROPE 2026 ARSENAL - PROPOSAL COPY

Session Title

PatchTriage: Evidence-Driven Patch Prioritization

Track

Vulnerability Assessment

Secondary Track

Risks

Format

New Tool

Audience Level

All

Theme

All

Source Code

https://github.com/d01ki/PatchTriage

Tool Description / Abstract

Vulnerability scanners are very good at finding problems. They are much less
useful at answering the deployer's next question: which remediation should we
execute first in this environment? CVSS measures technical severity, EPSS
estimates future exploitation activity, and CISA KEV records observed
exploitation, but none alone accounts for how a particular system is exposed
or what its failure means to the organization.

PatchTriage is an open-source, local-first vulnerability decision engine that
implements the published CERT/CC SSVC Deployer model
(ssvc:DT_DP:1.0.0). It ingests Trivy, Grype, and osv-scanner JSON, or resolves
CycloneDX and SPDX JSON SBOMs through OSV when network access is available. It
normalizes and deduplicates findings, then adds EPSS, CISA KEV, NVD, and
official vendor evidence. The deterministic engine applies Exploitation,
System Exposure, Automatable, and Human Impact to the official 72-path SSVC
decision table.

Instead of producing another opaque score, PatchTriage returns Defer,
Scheduled, Out-of-Cycle, or Immediate together with the decision path,
evidence provenance, confidence, and confirmation requirements. Findings are
grouped into package upgrades or mitigations rather than presented only as a
flat CVE list.

Optional AI is deliberately placed outside the decision trust boundary. The
deterministic SSVC engine computes the outcome before any model is called. An
AI backend may improve the human-readable rationale and remediation guidance,
but it cannot modify the outcome, action, deadline, or decision path. An audit
independently recomputes each decision and detects changed inputs, unsupported
numbers, and tampered paths. Failed AI calls fall back per finding to the
deterministic result.

The Arsenal demonstration is hands-on and reproducible. Attendees can import
a scanner report or SBOM, change only the deployment context, and observe how
the same vulnerability moves between official SSVC outcomes. They can compare
CVSS-, EPSS-, KEV-, and SSVC-based prioritization side by side, inspect the
evidence behind every decision, and generate an actionable remediation plan.
The bundled demonstration, verifier, and generated reports work offline
without external services or API keys. Fresh intelligence retrieval and SBOM
resolution remain optional network-dependent operations.

Tool Details

PatchTriage addresses a specific gap between vulnerability discovery and
patch execution: prioritizing remediation decisions instead of simply ranking
vulnerabilities.

The platform accepts Trivy, Grype, and osv-scanner JSON, plus CycloneDX and
SPDX JSON SBOMs. It normalizes heterogeneous findings, correlates CVE and GHSA
aliases, and enriches them with EPSS, CISA KEV, optional NVD data, and official
vendor advisories. SBOM vulnerability resolution uses OSV and requires network
access; the bundled demonstration uses frozen evidence and works offline.

The deterministic engine combines threat evidence with the deployed target's
System Exposure, Mission Impact, and Safety Impact, then applies the published
CERT/CC SSVC Deployer decision table. CVSS, EPSS, KEV status, vendor evidence,
and fixed versions remain visible, but they are not combined into a proprietary
score. Unknown inputs use conservative defaults and remain marked for human
confirmation.

Optional AI is outside the decision trust boundary. The SSVC outcome is
computed before a model is called; AI may improve only the explanation and
remediation wording. A machine audit independently recomputes the result and
detects altered outcomes, actions, deadlines, paths, or unsupported numerical
claims. Failed AI calls retain the deterministic result.

Findings are grouped by asset and package into concrete upgrades or
mitigations, allowing one package action to address multiple vulnerability
records. The offline verifier checks all 72 SSVC Deployer paths, all 16 Human
Impact combinations, target-context propagation, deterministic repeatability,
end-to-end behavior, and deliberate tampering. PatchTriage does not scan
systems or apply patches; it converts collected evidence into auditable
remediation decisions.

Tool URL

https://patch-triage.com/

Notes for Reviewers

PatchTriage is Apache-2.0 open source and can be evaluated without creating an
account, using an API key, or trusting the hosted instance.

Fastest reproducible review:

git clone https://github.com/d01ki/PatchTriage
cd PatchTriage
docker compose run --rm demo

Open:

./out/demo_report.html

Independent conformance and repeatability review:

python -m venv .venv
python -m pip install -e .
patchtriage verify --repeats 100 --output verification_report.json

The bundled demo and verifier are offline. No API key is required. The public
hosted instance exposes the same GUI, but it is a shared demonstration service
and should receive synthetic evidence only. Sensitive or production scan data
should be assessed through the local deployment.

Submission snapshot:

Version: 0.6.0
Commit: 8a60df80cf217c86bc30d40bdcec12e947fe8a04

Documentation:

README and quick start:
https://github.com/d01ki/PatchTriage#readme

Reviewer validation protocol:
https://github.com/d01ki/PatchTriage/blob/main/docs/VALIDATION.md

System design and technical specification:
https://github.com/d01ki/PatchTriage/blob/main/docs/PATCHTRIAGE_SYSTEM_DESIGN_JA.md

Display Name

[Enter the presenter's public display name in the form.]
